Let's discuss truthy values. So I want to
actually discuss something that you'll
see being done when you're looking at
code on the internet, for example,
and I'm going to keep this short and I'm
including it here for completeness.
Don't worry if you don't understand this. It'll
be there in the back of your mind and
it'll make sense when we come to use it.
So I'll start by referring to the Python documentation.
I'm linking the resources
section in this video. We're going to
paste it into here. So it starts by
saying that an object can be tested for
truth value for use in an if or while
condition. We'll see an example of that
in a moment. Now just below that, you can
see there's two bullets there,
indicating values that will evaluate to
False. So it mentions two constants - none
and False. We haven't seen none yet but
obviously, False is False. Zero is also
considered False, whether that's an
int zero or a floating point zero, it's
still False. And finally, empty sequences
and collections are also considered False.
So what does all this mean? We're
going to go back to the code
and we're going to stay with our truefalse.py file
from the previous video. We're going to
delete all the code now.
If you've been experimenting, and I hope you have, you
may want to keep your code. In that
case, just create a new python file for
these examples.
Alright so let's have a look at things
that evaluate to False when used in a
boolean expression. The documentation
said that zero was treated as False,
so let's type some code: if 0 colon,
on the next line, print parentheses and True in double quotes. We'll add an else there, else
colon print parentheses double quotes
False.
Now we don't actually have to execute this code because
my IDE's telling me, if I hover over line 2 there,
this code is unreachable. 0 won't evaluate to True,
so line 2 can't be executed.
We'll run it anyway and it prints False.
Alright so zero is evaluated to False
when it appears in a boolean expression.
Empty sequences also evaluate to False.
We've only seen one sequence type so far,
the string type.
So if an empty string evaluates to False,
we can do something like the following
I'm going to type in. So on line six, name equals
input parentheses double quotes
please enter your name, and we'll put a colon there
and we want a space, and closing double quote and right
parenthesis. Then we'll put if name colon
print on the next line parentheses
double quotes. We're going to type Hello
Hello comma then left and right curly braces,
then closing double quote dot format
left parenthesis name, then we've got the two
right parentheses there, else colon
print Are you the man with no name?
Alright, so both of those if statements on line 1
and line 7 look a bit strange.
Python expects a boolean expression
after if, which is why it tries to
evaluate 0 and name as boolean values.
We've already seen that 0 evaluates to
False. Let's run the program and see what
happens on line 7.
Alright, so I'm going to start by entering my name Tim. Because Tim isn't an empty string, it evaluates as
True on line 7 and we get the message
Hello Tim. Run the program again.
This time I'm just going to press enter here
without typing anything. So that then
results in name being an empty string
which evaluates as False and that's why
we get the message Are you the man with no
name? So that's actually quite useful.
We've got a quick way now to check if
the user types something when we ask
them for input. You'll see things like
that being done, but I suggest you avoid
doing it until you're really comfortable
with Python. So until then what I do,
I suggest you do, is write line 7 a
different way, so I want to comment that
out so you've still got it there, and instead
I'm going to type it as if name is not
equal, and two double quotes with a colon.
So now what we're doing on line 8 is
explicitly comparing name to an empty
string. It's more obvious what we're
doing there and that's the way I suggest
you write your conditions to begin with.
In the next video we'll finish
discussing boolean expressions by
looking at two more operators we  can
use; in and not in.
See you in the next video.